3.7 Exercises pg. 96.                        Oct 11th, 2018

Dylan Rampersad


1.
  Concept: A turn-based RPG with elements of magic and combat. (For mobile/handheld consoles)

 -A medieval fanstasy world where you play as Danvor. A warrior/mage class character with a quiet personality.
  When you start the game you're introduced to Danrim practicing magic with his mother aiding him. His father
  who works for king's millitary has been called to arms due to the kingdom being in the midst of a revolution 
  because the people were not pleased with how their kind was running the country. His mother had to go with his
  father because the king her presences because of her strong magical power. Thinking Danvor is old enough to
  take care of himself while they are gone, they leave him to himself to fight in the war. Danvor -now angry at
  his parents- leave in search of them after a week. He has to fight his was through various creatures and 
  animals. When he finally gets to the castle, he fights his was through the guards that think he's a revolutionary
  and finds that the king is holding his parents as prisoners because they uncovered a dark secret about the
  king. Danvor has to fight the king in order to save his parents and in doing so, stops the revolution and the 
  new king offers Danvor a job as the leader of the royal guard.

  Concept: Realtime RPG fantasy game.

 -A medieval world in the middle of a revolution you play as a character who practices magic and fighting along
  with hunting and crafting. You can explore the world and all it has to offer (Dungeons, monsters, resorces and
  upgrading). He first fights his was to the leader of the revolution who turns out to be a woman he had saved 
  before. Being in dept to you she offers her aid and resources. Through her you aquire targets whom are of
  importance to the royal family. But the people on the list your character are truely after are secretly 
  part of a group seperate from the rebellion and the royals. These people use both sides of the revolution to 
  further their own goal which is to control the world through political power. One by one you fight through the
  group's members finding that your own parents are members. Choosing to kill the mother will result in the father
  coming after you ultimately catching you off guard. Sparing the mother will result in her seeing her mistakes
  and she joins your side to help kill the father. Sparing the father will result in the father taking control of
  the group as their leader later on in the story. Killing the father will result in revealing to you that the 
  group youre fighting against is the king himself. His plan is to make the relolution last until it spread across 
  the nation. From there he plans to unleash 4 dragons that are under his control in order to kill off the
  revolutionaries and gain control over the whole nation. If you decide to kill both parents, your character's morals
  get twisted and he steals the king's idea to take over the nation and succeeds. If you spare both parents then
  the nation is revealed the truth about the former king and the new king offers your character a job as head of
  royal guard. If you spared one parent and killed the other, the ending is narrorated by the parent that lives
  revealing to the player that they are attempting to rebuild the group that you had defeated.

a. I noticed that once I started the story that I had a lot of ideas but couldn't implement them into the story
   because it didn't fit the narretive or didn't make sense to previous statments I had already written.

b. I had to think about a lot of factors when writing both the linear and non-linear storylines. With the linear
   story I had to make a simple yet interesting storyline that the player could be invested in and not get lost
   in the story. With the non-linear storyline I had to change a lot. Firstly, I got rid of the main character
   having a name to open character customization. After that I had to create a longer story to introduce more 
   content like crafting, upgrading and a leveling system. After that I implemented a moral system for replayability.
   I changed the concept from turn-based to realtime in order to give a more emersed expirience to the game.

2.

a. -For the first game I chose a turn based game to add potential for strategic combos and moves to a fight.
   -Hunting animals and looting corpes for food, potions and gear.
   -Food, healing spells and health postions restore player health
   -Gear and weapons have different stats and abilities. (e.g. A sword with the ability of shooting fire)
   -Enemies get harder to fight the further you progress in story and in level.
   -Different enemies have special abilities spacifically for them. (e.g. Fire cannot harm a water fairy)
   -Shell Menu has options for sound, display, subtitles, start game, view map, ect.

   -For the second game I made it a realtime 3rd person game to emerse the player more into the world.
   -I decided not to give the character a name to open character customization options.
   -Hunting for food, crafting or looting potions and healing spells restore health.
   -Craft, loot or complete quests for gear and weapons
   -Enemies have different special abilities depending on their level.
   -I used the story from the first game to inspire the second but I expanded it into a much bigger one.
   -Shell menu is user friendly.

b. -For the first game I chose turn-based RPG with elements of magic within the story and gameplay.
   -For the second game I chose a realtime RPG with both elements of magic in the story and gameplay and 
    consiquences for choices the player makes.


3. 
   For the core mechanics I would have to create entities such as the different spells and what they look
   like when being used, the enemies, animals and allies.
   For the second game I would have to create a lot of entities. Magical spells, enemies, allies, arrows,
   civilians, ect.


4.
   The level will consist of the player in a forest having to fight through a handfull of enemies. There
   will be traps that you'll have to deactivate with either a magical spell or a bow and arrow. There are
   areas to climb like the trees and various rock formations for a more stealth approch. the player follows
   a path from where the spawn in and continue until they reach a treasure chest. Enemies spawn around the
   chest and the player has to fight through the enemies in order to get the gear that's in the chest. 
   From there the player follows another path laid out after the fight leading to a small mini-boss.
   The player has to fight the mini-boss. 

   I created the layout because it shows off a lot of what the game has to offer. options for stealth, 
   magic and combat. Adding a path to follow makes it so the player doesn't get lost finding where to go.
   The treasure chest adds a sense of needing to be rewarded. (Extra encuragement to beat all the enemies
   in the room). I the chest is a piece of armor that helps with the later mini-boss. I chose to add the 
   mini-boss because it creates an opertunity for the player to really see what the character can do and
   how he/she fights when presented a challenge.