4.5 Exercses pg. 118                        Oct 12th 2018

Dylan Rampersad, Joseph Tanner

1. -God of War
 a. it's a fast pace, 3D platformer, hack and slash type game where you fight through enemies to achieve your
    goal.
  
 b. God of War crosses into sub-genres like Action-Adventure, Hack and Slash with small elements of puzzle
    solving. These are genres that the game crosses into because the main character (Kratos) is on a quest.
    Along the way he has to fight his was through and in some challenges the player is required to use his/her
    brain to complete a level.
 
 c. God of War does not tend to stray from the norm of other game within the genre.



2. -Warcraft
 a. stratagy plays a big role in this game because you need resources to build armies to take over more land
    for more recourses.

 b. It crosses ovre with MMORPG because you can play against other player online.

 c. This game stay within the norm of a strategy game.



3. -Skyrim
 a. Skyrim is an RPG because it takes place in a fantasy game with stats, abilities, a leveling system and magic.

 b. The game doesn't tend to cross with other genres although it has Action-adventure, choose your own 
    adventure and puzzle solving.
 
 c. It's not normal compared to other RPG's because there is more character customization, enhanced gameplay,
    more freedom with creating your own class(es), first-person and a non-linear story.


4. -WWE
 a.  It has a sense of realism when compared to watching a live match. It is based off a real organization that 
     broadcasts to live television

 b. WWE crosses over with the fighting game genre.  

 c. It does not stray from the norm because the gammeplay and asthetic tend to be the same with each game that
    comes out.


5.6 Exercises pg. 138

1. -Mario Kart
 a. It is a vehicle simulation game with stats for traction, speed, acceleration, ect.

 b. It does not cross into other genres because the gameplay and asthetics are unique

 c. objectives of taking out enemy players/NPC's with items aquired from item boxes and There are
    different gamemodes.


2. -Cities: Skylines
 a. It's a contrustion and managment game because you can build your own cities and towns and have to 
    maintain them.

 b. It does not cross over with other genres.

 c. It is typical of this genre because other construction and management games require you to do the same thing.


3. -Assassin's Creed: Odyssey
 a. It is an adventure game becasue it is a massively open-world game.

 b. It crosses over with action because it has an inhanced combat system. and RPG because it has a leveling system
    with abilities and stats on armour and weapons.
    
c. It is typical of games within this genre.


4. -Portal
 a. Portal is a puzzle game because it contains levels that tests the player's problem solving abilities.

 b. It crosses over with platformer because you have to move he character around in 3 dimensional levels.

 c. It is not typical of this genre because the gameplay is different from most puzzle games.


5. -Overwatch

a. It's an online game.

b. It is a first-person shooter.

c. It is typical of this genre because it is required to have an internet connection.
      
 
 