9.4 Exercises p.g. 228.                            Oct 22nd, 2018

Dylan Rampersad

1.
   The process I should take to creating a mobile game is separated into steps.

   Step 1 is to work around an idea I have. 
   An idea to create a mobile game is hard at first but if I brainsorm ideas and look to other mobile games for 
   inpiration it could be very helpful in creating a successful game. I could look at games like Assassin's creed 
   Rebellion, Flappy bird or Geometry Dash for ideas on how to write up the gameplay, asthetics and story.

   Step 2 is to tell a story
   Telling a story can be long and complicated but for a mobile game I may wanna consider making it something 
   simple by using a format.
   For Example:
   -How to win?
   -who is the hero and villain?
   -Why do the hero and villain fight?
   -What kind of strengths and weaknesses will be crucial?

   Step 3 is to create a sense of acomplishment sothat the player will want to play more.
   Creating a mechanic that gives the player a sense of acomplishment can be hard at first. But once you come up
   with one thing you'll start to think; "about what else can you reward the player with for doing various tasks?"
   I can make it simple and give them in-game currency or I can add different types of recourses, new gear, unlocked
   levels and much more depending on how many tasks they would have to acomplish. 
  
   Step 4 is to choose a platform.
   This step isn't as hard as the other steps commonly mobile games are made for mostly Andriod and iOS. So it would
   be beneficial to create a vision for both and not make a version for Windows or BlackBerry.

   Step 5 is to create an athetic.
   Creating an asthetic might be one of the longest processes to making a game. Once you have an art style down on
   how the game will visiually look, it is a good idea to stick to that for other parts of the game.

   Step 6 is financing. 
   Finding out how much the game will cost to make, publish and distribute via Apple store and Play store.

   Step 7 is playtesting.
   Okay. So you've made the game, created a sense of accomplishment, created the asthetic design and finished all
   the coding. But before you distribute the product you should playtest and see what problems you may have. If there
   are some problems with the game you can fix it by going backa few steps and playtesting again. Continue this until
   you are fully confident that the game is ready. A good way to asure this is to get other people to playtest the 
   game for you and recieve their feedback.

I got help on the different steps from this source:
https://www.newgenapps.com/blog/steps-successful-mobile-game-development


3.
  a. Tour of Duty being transferred from Spark Entertainment to Activision.

  b. The major components of the relationship between the game studio and activion are that the studio will and is 
     willing to create 3 distinct products for Activision and Activision will play and provide them with the equipment,
     software and other finiancial needs for the product. Activision will also promote the developer as a "creative
     talent in the field".
     The entire development team would need to be aware of the Development team updates, Developer's responsibilities,
     development team & updates, the milestone schedule, the TDDs and the "Do's and Don'ts" for the team.

  c. Each party must be aware that they are not allowed to reveal confidential information. If a one of the two
     parties decide not to continue with the project, they have to give up all confidential information to the 
     other party.
     In the NDA2 it says that the disclosee will try their best to keep any information given to him/her
     confidential. Nothing in the agreement allows any information to be transferred to the diclosee. They
     are allowed to state that there is a game coming out and that they were a beta tester for said game.
     The disclosee is not allowed to state how many people are working on the game, details on stability of
     the game, appearance & gameplay and the game's development. 

























 